2024-06-24  William A. Hudson

		    Galvo Scanner Partial Plan
		    --------------------------

Initial work breakdown to get to imaging biological samples.
[The BME 2023 team got there, we need to do it again.]

A work breakdown is a simple hierarchical list of all the things that need
to be accomplished to meet the milestone/objective/deliverable.
In this list, each line either clarifies the above task, or is a sub-task
needed to accomplish it.

Effort estimates:
    1d = "one effort day", anywhere from 2 hours to 4 hours that I can spend
    on the project.  If I was working full time, it might be 8 hours.
    Any estimate is easily wrong by a factor of 2x.
    Use in two ways:
	1) Relative size to help choose between alternatives.
	2) Get rough feel for total effort.
    Use to trade off scope vs schedule and decide whether to push for
    better quality (i.e. more scope) or to push "good enough for now"
    (i.e. favor schedule, and maybe revisit it later).

The idea is to think about what needs to be done.
Typically it is the overlooked items that blow the schedule.
Items and estimates should be added/changed as we go along - the plan
is not static.

"Plans are nothing, Planning is everything."
"These are forward looking statements, do not invest based on them."

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    A) Milestone:  Image a biological sample.
	    Turn-on demonstration and enable Priya to do the same.
	    Simplest bio sample, nothing fancy.
	    IS  Existing galvo scanner 2024-06-20.
	    NOT Other modes of operation, e.g polarized light, mirror
		    beam splitter.
	    IS  Any realignment or rework to make it work.
	    NOT Best Z-sectioning (that comes later).
	    IS  Wide open pinhole, just get imaging.
	    IS  Measure field of view (FOV).
	    IS  Measure resolution with USAF 1051 target.
	    IS  Estimate spot size vs Z-position.
	    IS  Just one objective.

 3d	Experiment:
	    Initial experiment outline and operating procedure written.
	    Image reference target - measure FOV, resolution.
	    Image sample on galvo scanner.
		Scan Z-depth.
		Find coverslip surfaces and glass slide first surface).
		Measure/Place reference marks on coverslip.
	    Image sample on commercial microscope (and reference target).
		Capture camera images.
	    Analyze data, compare and contrast.
	    Conclusions, next steps.
	    Report write up.

	    This IS the primary result/product, defines what is needed below.
	    Actually this experiment will be repeated many times, improving
	    methods as we go.

 1d	Scanner system aligned, calibrated.
	    Align 5x objective and sample target.
	    Pinhole open.
	    Image reference target.  Image ruler.
	    Measure FOV.
	    Measure resolution.
	    Measure spot size.
	    At multiple Z-positions to find focus.

	Sample Holder
 2d	    A) Make a holder for a microscope slide.
		Holder to allow swapping in USAF 1951 target.
		Mounted on XYZ stage.

 1d	    B) Purchased slide holder.
		Install on XYZ stage.  Easier with no access behind sample.
		Maybe need a mounting bar for access behind sample?
		Align to find focus.

 1d	Software, Data organization.
	    Start with raster_gal.m  2024-06-20.  Debug.
	    Verify one pixel per sample image.
	    Verify data files are correct (not transposed, etc.)
	    Verify displayed image is truly 1 pixel-per-sample.
	    Code review for correctness.
	    IS  Raw image is non-linear in X.
	    NOT Develop interpolation method to linearize X.

 1d	Operating Procedure
	    Experiment data directory  e.g. exp/ex2024_06_24/
	    Source of scripts, copy to experiment directory.  src/
	    Turn-on/off equipment reminder list.
	    Software operation procedure.
	    Verify optical path, baseline signal intensity.
	    Validate reference image of Ronchi Ruling.
	    Placement of sample slide on stage.
	    Adjust focus.  Find coverslip surfaces.
	    Take data, possibly multiple Z-position.

 1d	Sample Preparation
	    What is needed?
	    What is lifetime of specimen (before unusable)?
	    Perhaps make a robust long-life reference sample?
	    Choose simplest bio sample, e.g. onion skin?
	    Prepare, mount on slide, coverslip.
	    Orientation marks on coverslip:  e.g. one dot near observation
		point, and other orientation marks further away in FOV.
		Purpose is to find the same area in both microscopes.
	    Probably same day as galvo scanner ready to operate.
	    Image blank slide and coverslip as a control.

	Here I suggest leaving out optimizing the pinhole, mostly to avoid
	creating even more dependencies before getting Priya started with
	imaging.  There is so much more we need to learn by doing trial runs
	toward the ultimate goal.


    B) Milestone:  Image a biological sample - with Z-sectioning.
	    Similar to A, but improved system.

 2d	Scanner system with small pinhole.
	    Best resolution is 1 Airy unit.  Perhaps 5 um dia pinhole?
		We might be lucky to get a 10 um pinhole?
	    Align pinhole:
		A) With mirror target at best focus.
		B) With 1/4 wave plate and mirror after dichro, before galvos.
		[Mirror alignment is critical - want a corner cube reflector?]
	    We will do this more than once.
	    Do we need XYZ pinhole/detector positioning?
	    Measure signal at each smaller pinhole.  Are we loosing too much?

 2d	Scanner system calibration.
	    Measure FOV.
	    Measure resolution with USAF 1951 target.
	    Measure spot size.
	    Measure signal level.
	    Analyze results.
	    At multiple Z-positions to find focus and characterize beam waist.
	    A) Bare minimum to start.
	    B) Detailed to understand beam waist and Z-sectioning.
		This is significant experiments and analysis.
	    How/Why do we care?

 2d	Software speed improvement.
	    Increase sample rate.
	    Sinewave move to start of frame, saving half the run time.
	    Verify it works correctly.
	    What scanning resolution do we need?


Things Needed:
	Ruler for imaging FOV.  (Bill has 0.01 inch steel ruler)


